.TH LOOPX 1 "2026-07-03" "LoopX 0.1.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
loopx \- control-plane helper for long-running agent work
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B loopx
[\fB--registry\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--runtime-root\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB--format\fR \fImarkdown|json\fR]
\fICOMMAND\fR
[\fIARGS\fR]
.br
.B loopx
\fICOMMAND\fR
\fB--help\fR
.br
.B loopx commands
.SH DESCRIPTION
LoopX keeps long-running agent work moving by preserving goals, todos, gates,
quota, and evidence between agent turns.
.PP
The default command surface is intentionally short. New users should start with
the agent slash command path, then use the CLI for install checks, status,
diagnosis, and handoff packets.
.SH START HERE
.TP
.B /loopx
Ask the agent to inspect LoopX status, gates, todos, and next action.
.TP
.B /loopx <goal text>
Start or continue one concrete long-running goal through the agent.
.TP
.B loopx doctor
Check install, PATH, release snapshot, skills, and import health.
.TP
.B loopx bootstrap-command-pack --project .
Generate a setup packet for a manual shell or first agent handoff.
.SH DAILY COMMANDS
.TP
.B loopx status
Show current goals, gates, attention queue, and next action.
.TP
.B loopx diagnose --goal-id <goal-id>
Build a compact evidence packet when behavior is surprising.
.TP
.B loopx review-packet --goal-id <goal-id>
Render a handoff or review packet for operator judgment.
.TP
.B loopx todo --help
Show todo add, claim, complete, update, supersede, and archive forms.
.TP
.B loopx quota should-run
Decide whether the next agent turn should run.
.SH MORE COMMANDS
.TP
.B loopx commands
Show the grouped command reference.
.TP
.B loopx COMMAND --help
Show flags for one command.
.TP
.B docs/guides/newcomer-command-path.md
Explains the minimal product path for new users.
.TP
.B docs/guides/getting-started.md#command-reference
Keeps the longer operator and contributor command catalog.
.SH INSTALL NOTES
The LoopX local installer writes this manual to
\fI$HOME/.local/share/man/man1/loopx.1.gz\fR by default and adds
\fI$HOME/.local/share/man\fR to MANPATH in the selected shell profile.
If the current shell has not reloaded that profile, run:
.PP
.B MANPATH="$HOME/.local/share/man:${MANPATH:-}" man loopx
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR man (1)
